white tigers they captivate us
ghost-like
in appearance with stunning blue eyes
many think them the most beautiful
animals on earth mesmerised by their
rare beauty many of us are unaware of
what makes a white tiger white or we
think that white tigers are simply
Siberian tigers the truth is white
tigers are white because of a genetic
mutation that causes a condition called
leucism leucistic animals are similar to
albino animals in that the pigment in
their bodies did not fill in where it
should have interestingly leucism in
tigers usually occurs among bengal
tigers and not among Siberian tigers at
all there is no place in the world that
Tigers naturally inhabit wear a white
coat is helpful in fact for a tiger
being white in the wild is a distinct
disadvantage without the typical orange
and black pattern to provide proper
camouflage a tiger cannot depend on the
surprise attack to catch its prey the
presence of that orange hue among the
black and white stripes is crucial to a
tiger survival
for this very reason no legitimate
conservation organization has any plans
to release white tigers into the wild
white tigers bred in captivity are bred
for a life in captivity while some may
argue that this is acceptable simply
because so many of us find white tigers
beautiful we must understand that the
only way to get more white tigers is to
in breed them mothers are crossed with
sons fathers with daughters and brothers
with sisters this inbreeding results in
a host of health problems including
cleft palates immune system dysfunctions
neurological disorders scoliosis of the
spine and blatant deformities that
include bulging eyes and teeth that go
in all different directions captive
white tigers must live with these
problems all the while the healthy
orange and black tigers in the wild are
disappearing at an alarming rate when we
consider these factors the beauty of
white tigers and our fascination with
them are not enough reason to continue
the practice of breeding them for
commercial purposes in bred white tigers
are traded for thousands of dollars per
animal year after year the public spends
thousands every year paying to see them
hold them and have their pictures made
with them
this is proof that among us we have more
than enough financial resources to do
the real work of conservation which is
preserving the habitat of healthy wild
tigers as well as giving law enforcement
what they need to stop people from
poaching them we have the tools all we
need now is the will the experts say
there are 20 years left for Tigers in
the wild we can turn this around
with every dollar you spend every photo
you share every idea you perpetuate and
every bit of goodwill that you have
towards animals choose the path that
will lead to a healthy wild population
rather than a sick captive population
the Tigers and future generations will
thank you